# Spend Less, Feel More

It is entirely appropriate that technology workers burn out faster because they
are at the cutting edge of a way of life that is fundamentally broken.

Here is the good news: burnout causes you to take stock, and if you go through
it, you are in new ground on which better appreciation of your limits gives you
firmer footing.

Our biggest problems today come from not knowing our limits. We think “well, I
guess I ought to be about to do that. After all she does.” So we enter
situations we’d have been healthier to avoid.

By indulging in the idea that we today are more capable, more thoughtful, more
productive and in all ways better than those who came before, we find no hard
borders in ourselves to use in order to stand and fight.

In the end, we are pushed around. We are the 98-pound weakling of the old ad.

[insert picture]

We all know how this guy feels.

He wants to participate. He wants to get the girl. He feels excluded, yet
deserving. And of course he is deserving. His way is our way, and it is why we
are all unhappy.

---

You disagree? You are “empowered?” Really?

Why do you work so hard?

You likely confuse the upper bound of a sin function with sustained health. You
are more likely in that moment when you feel identified with the culture that
imperils you.

---

Insert article from commondreams.org about Ladakh.

This article does a fantastic job from a first-hand witness point of view of
showing how the incursion of “market based” values erodes community and fosters
a despirited and fear-based approach to life. I think the article can provide
many examples and ideas from which to begin thinking. In fact, I’d like to
contact the author. We, in the First World were long ago transformed or
“colonized,” and even our grandparents may know little of the old ways. Maya
mentions that in Bulgaria the change was more recent, so in the grandparent
generation there is still memory of what was (discussion around herbal
medicine). Kris’s father Kwansei reminds me of this too, he knew all the plants
on the Big Island in Hawaii where he grew up. The good life was in knowing the
plants and the jungle, hunting for wild pigs, etc. All that is gone, and he has
stories of his brothers who still hunt, and no young people want the meat
anymore. You could imagine a book called “Where we Left the Path” that
interviews these older people...they have been gentle with us, knowing that we
had to follow our own star...but I wonder about the questions they might ask us
about the health of our new, modern ways.  Write about vacations that are cheap
yet actually restful.

[Maya started this down below, a chapter about “Destination” vacations.]

How much limits help you.

Chat with Maya about all this.

Search for the most positive way to describe.

## What is this book about?

Maya and I found agreement in being perplexed at the “default” mode today. Why
perplexed? What (if anything) do we have to say...what do we think we know?

Bulgaria is “closer to the ground” and this is an asset in the cultural memory.
Compare/contrast. I have a bit of that with rural Texas, but not as much.

We’ve both had experience of “failure” in the modern system...Maya with trying
to be perfect in the workplace (modern idea of the perfect, highly productive
individual), me with failure to hold fixed a dream of marriage when it’s time
had passed. Self-reflection and the painful experience in one area has a
strange way of offering insight to related modes of “failure,” which is
increasingly recognized as a cultural label that shouldn’t simply be accepted.
Successfully processing failure leads to new, better plateaus that are good for
the individual and the surrounding community.

In my now rather long career in the computer industry, I’ve come to conclusions
that are not widely shared, or at least talked about. I recognize that life is
long, and enthusiasm needs to be protected and tended like a fire. Seen plenty
of burn-out, and I regard it as sad and unnecessary. What I do is not really
that different from others, but it seems to create something positive.

There are self-help books and there are computer books. There are people who
speak in terms of emotion and others who speak in terms of technology. We could
write a thing that does both. The use of modern, technical and programmatic
metaphors (linked lists, compiled code, background tasks) is both up-to-date
and funny. It’s the way a lot of us speak today. I don’t know if there is much
that speaks to modern working technical people, both men and women. I’m
inspired by some of the writing by women, maybe primarily for women. It at
least acknowledges and validates feelings other than banal desire to deploy a
service to AWS with one less configuration file! At any rate, I feel some sense
of vacuum. This is good because it means something useful can be offered.


# Broken Lives

You know what broken lives look like, and it’s good, to a certain extent to use
their example as a goad to strive for the better. A problem I’ve had, is that I
can’t tell the difference between a life of “sin” and a life that is simply
relaxed in the presence of uncertainty.

When I use the word sin, it’s not in a Christian sense, or even necessarily a
religious sense (though I’d forgive you for any allergy to the word...it
belongs so wholly in the modern world to “God talk”). I mean “to miss the
mark,” using an old Greek or Hebrew sense of the term. Why use such a word
loaded with connotations? Because I like the connotations. They do make the
term “loom large” in the mind, and that’s a good thing. I think that one of the
greatest errors we can make as modern people is to turn away from opportunities
we’ve been gifted with. To choose the smaller vision over the larger.

Don’t get me wrong...I haven’t turned around and elevated the 1980s “go-getter”
or the modern “Tiger mom” as the best kind of human by definition simply
because they do more...because they fill every moment of life with some
externally defined metric of productivity. In many cases those people have
settled for a smaller vision of life: I’m only as good as I’m regarded.

We all make errors all the time, it’s how we learn. The greater sin is in
turning away from enthusiasm, from the outstretched hand with energy behind it,
from the heights that we can imagine, though we may never reach.

When I was younger I couldn’t see the difference there...I walked around in a
muddle, feeling like gee, I should work harder, but why can’t I find the energy
to be “virtuous” and just hold the pedal to the floor. I used fear of
stagnation and premature decline and death to divide people into dehumanizing
groups.

Sadly, I think a large part of “how I got to where I am” was accomplished
through irrational fear.  I had to reach an age where the major cultural
milestones in “A Good Life (™)” were accomplished before I could relax, and see
that many people I regarded as less-than were actually greater-than. I can see,
somewhat ruefully, that many ideas I thought were good turned out to be
negative in the end.


An example is NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement. Culturally I
belonged to the Liberal wing of American politics, and I remember a debate
between Al Gore and Ross Perot on CNN in the early 1990s. As I watched, I was
responding emotionally to the situation. I saw a young man positioned against
an older one. I saw a positive and enthusiastic vision of the future set
against a querulous and blinkered view that conjured up all the bad
associations already in me with the old “gatekeepers” in my life, who I’d
mostly had to simply bypass.

I can say with honesty that I was responding emotionally, because I have a
full-bloom memory of that hour 30 years ago, while I can’t find within me a
single intellectual argument why NAFTA should or shouldn’t have become law. I
only know, many years later, that whatever basic good NAFTA had in it for
working people on both sides of the U.S. and Mexican borders has been obviated
by the loss of good jobs on one side, and the creation of brutal sweatshops on
the other. Whether people have a right to feel this way or not, the whole
agreement is colored by a festering resentment.

I’ve had to reconsider many things which I believed with the clear, simple
light of noon as a younger adult. A passage in the Lord of the Rings came back
to me:

> passage where Gandalf sounds like a mean old man, and Sarumann sounds wise, at the Tower

Things aren’t always as they seem. It can be, that the older woman or man
everyone is tired of hearing from at a city council meeting is on the side of
Light and Progress. But she doesn’t fit easily into the slot, and the audience
will be wrapped up largely in their own views of the world.

Gradually, you find it easier to set your own perspective aside. This is a
relief, because your life is less brutalized by the rough edges between your
perspective and others, or what you perceive others perspective to be.

So...I know I don’t have a monopoly on truth because I’ve seen over and over
how I was wrong, and the more certain I was of being right at the time, the
more likely it is that those opinions haven’t worn well. It’s possible then, to
see how much fear drove me.

Oh well, right? I mean, what are you going to do? Just try and improve that’s
all…

So the gift I can offer is my own wasted time. I can tell you now, and some of
you will be able to hear it: you are the greatest source of your fear...not the
harsh economic world out there, the company you work for, the landlord banging
on the door.

When you hear the banging on the door, I think your head may fill with
consequences...you may get a vision of yourself, years from now, toothless and
shivering in an alcove. Perhaps you are coughing up blood, and waiting for your
erstwhile boyfriend to return with liquor, though you suspect he won’t be
back...piecing together the looks and ugly words shared with his friends the
night before.

WTF?! Where did I get that?!

For me, such rich and terrible visions of a destitute broken life are always
right beneath the surface. I hope you don’t have this problem, it’s no fun!

Living with fear as a goad might produce outward signs of success, but if you
ever wonder why successful people never seem to be happy, it will make more
sense to you if you can enter the fear mindset. Each “success” was actually a
narrow escape, unlikely to be repeated. Each success only feels like an
extension of an initial fraud, and when “they” find out in the end,
well...it’ll just be that much worse.

It’s a cramped and ugly vision of life.

It explains so much about our world.

It’s the world we’ve built, we fearful ones.

# The Fear of Death

Do you want to escape this way of living? And yet also keep your job, friends
and degree of financial security you’ve acquired?

You can! Srsly.

You only have to confront your fear of death in all it’s forms.

Big deal, right?

Pff. You’ve got an hour before work, keep reading and you might sort this out
before that guy in Infrastructure/Test pins you down at the coffee machine to
regale you with stories about the all-night death-match in Prey, live-streamed
on Twitch, and why weren’t you watching?


It sounds silly, to suggest that fear of death is behind everything. No...your
real problems loom right in front of you, and are far more immediate. Frankly,
you can’t see the connection. Whatever! Maybe there are various people, weak of
mind and will who might think that way, but for you, death is so far from your
mind as to be an abstract concept. “Death.” Pff. Eye-roll.

Maybe you are right! But indulge me for a momento.

How do you decide what you believe?

Do you make a list with pros and cons for one kind of belief about the world?
Do you count them, and say “9 cons, and 8 pros, clearly believing each human is
a psychopath until proved otherwise is not a good idea. Sorry pros, you didn’t
make the bar!”

No, you don’t do this. But if you did, the process would at least be a clear,
rational attempt to end up at the right place. One thing for sure, on the core
beliefs, you are sure you are at the right place, right now. By God (or not).

At some level in you, the belief is strong...it’s natural that we call them
“core” beliefs...they feel as if they are held there, at some place between
gut, heart and brain. Probably closer to gut than brain, too.

And how were they formed?

By a mysterious process, right? Saw the right movies, had something happen to a
friend, a long talk with Mom one lazy Sunday afternoon when you were sick. Hurt
in particular, deep ways.

Cried yourself to sleep.

Awoke, disconnected from your feelings. Went through the day numb.

Eventually forgot...smiled back when greeted...carried on.

## Wha?

What I’m getting at here is that although the process of forming core beliefs
is mysterious, it is nonetheless very real, very “rational” at some level, and
built often on the deepest and most painful experiences of our lives.

Examining core beliefs is tricky...we’ll often “skim” over them and not look
too closely because there is risk of re-experiencing pain.

Reflect on that idea and put it beside the idea that death is abstract and far
away, and not any real part of your calculations. In my case, it began to dawn
on me that I really couldn’t say for sure that death (or some other close,
primal fear) wasn’t wrapped up somehow in my actions. Hidden under bandages
within the body of my core beliefs.

**Eww**.

Just to lighten the mood a moment...how could it be otherwise? How would it be
worthwhile to burn some idea deep into your hardware unless that idea was tied
to something “strong?”

As a computer fella, my work is often centered on making something
faster...sometimes I can spend weeks or months removing a few milliseconds from
a tiny operation, say, hooking two pieces of text together on a CPU. If the
need is great enough, somebody way smarter will come along and make a computer
chip that does the work much quicker than I can do in software.

**If the need is great enough, the belief will be encoded into hardware.**

Our hardware is the reptilian brain, some deep layer that we spend a lot of
time pretending doesn’t exist. It is disturbing to think that the baby gives
off signals of “cuteness” because it’s more likely that he’ll be fed and cared
for. (I can imagine the thinking inside the baby’s head “jeez, why did I giggle
like that? WTF, man, do I have any self-respect? Okay...next time she comes
around, Imma be like, stoic.”)

I think we are culturally processed to become alienated from that reptilian
brain as early as possible. You can understand why. The feelings and attitudes
in that area would seem to be corrosive to community life. However, just as
we’ve been talking about how fear can distort your impressions of daily life,
fear of the reptilian brain on a societal level distorts that society’s
response to it’s messages. Society in general tries to cover up those feelings,
being ashamed of them.

But “covering up” is almost always bad. It’s the kind of thing you can do on
the run for a while, but damn...you gotta get that wound looked at, dude. It’s
gonna go bad! (there are a dozen scenes like this in old westerns or zombie
apocalypse movies, lol).

You’ve got to look at the wound, and see that, hey, it’s not such a terrible
thing. Like...I have a part of me that is so calculating and subtle in it’s
weighing of the scales that it’s a little frightening. I’m inclined to regard
it as less than human. However...without that part of me...would I have
survived?

Would any of us?

Before we “throw it out,” try to imagine a world without that reptile inside.

I think that on climbing down from the trees, we wouldn’t have made it to the
open savanna.

The reptile can be terrible. It’s likely responsible for a lot of the pain in
our world, sure. But that snake will stay up all night within you, thinking
about your safety.

Will it destroy your humanity in it’s attempt to gain safety?

SURE! But it’s a reptile, what does it care?

My point here is this: it’s a part of you, a deep part. Accept that it’s there.
That doesn’t mean you should do what it says, for Heaven’s sake! But it’ll be
there, forever. From first breath to the last. Coiled within you. At the core.




So, to summarize where we are, I’ve argued that fear of death is primal and
very real. That it’s mostly hidden from us, because the place where that fear
is most strongly felt is a place in us that doesn’t have a good reputation in
our society, and is therefore suppressed.

> BTW, does it occur to you that corporations, themselves “reptilian” in some
> ways are making out like bandits from this happy accident that your deep fear
> is tied to a shameful part of you, therefore avoided and unexamined? If you
> can’t “see” it you are defenseless against being manipulated in that part of
> you. Okay jus’ sayin’, it’s not so important to pull that thread now.

Assumptions are a great place for a society to hide things. If a belief is
prevalent enough to have entered the shared assumption set of a culture, then
it’s harder to challenge. First off, you have to get people to even see it.
You’ll lose most folks on the way to that (“I don’t even know what she’s
talking about, pff…”). Out of the folks that remain to converse with you and
explore, many will unconsciously defend the status quo, others will argue
against it, all based on the way their personality aligns itself in relation to
the status quo. How many will be left to, without fear, hold up the believe and
ask “why so?” (the german word “Wieso?” is cool here). Other important
questions are “how did it become this way?” and “what would be better?.”

Very few people will go there. I’d argue that if you read this far, you are
kind of a quester who isn’t easily cowed. Congratulations!

Sigh. Welcome to a place where things are more complicated for you than for
others!

But anyway….those unafraid people are good partners for discussion. They may
well conclude to leave things as they are after a careful look. This is a good
outcome too, because for those who went through the examination, their world
makes more sense going forward. They have less of that “nagging” sense that
something is wrong, and made peace with aspects of the world that they don’t
like.

I’m really pro-examination. I’m not pro-action. At least until examination is
complete.




So if you are with me this far, then you might say “alright, maybe there is a
fear of death in me, and maybe it drives me more than I was willing to admit.
So?”

In a lot of ways, if you are there, then I’m gonna go get myself a beer and
celebrate, because if you don’t get anything else from this text, this is
already very, very valuable to you going forward.

Basically, a subprocess has been kicked off at a low level. It’s going to run,
crunching over logs, setting up little event handler hooks, churning on a
background task that is charged with updating your beliefs about the world. And
I don’t even care where you end up at the conclusion of that task.

I really believe that the worst suffering in our world comes from action or
inaction that isn’t consciously thought through. Therefore, the existence of
more “event handlers” and self-examination background tasks within more
individuals is already enough to reduce suffering.

Okay, now that I’ve revealed myself as a blowhard with a tendency to use
boldface font a bit much, let’s move on. :) 



So how would you tackle this problem? And wait, what is the problem again?

I have to be more precise: it’s not a “problem” really, that we all have a fear
of death. It’s the unconscious way that fear shapes our core beliefs, causing
us to end up with beliefs that corrode our happiness and goad us into doing
things that we may regret.

That’s the “problem.”

Now, a clever person will come along and ask why we should tackle it. That
is...maybe we’ll ruin everything if we try. (News headline from the future:
“‘Human Blobs’ no longer willing to work, humanity imperiled, catastrophic rise
of indolence!” Though, really, the headline would be full of spelling errors
because once indolence is out there on the land -- it’s in the newsroom too!).

Well, to that I say fine. If we are going to end this game in some sad way, I’d
rather it be the examined way...the way chosen, rather than the way we
unwittingly fell into. 

I think humanity, if it is anything special at all, is the use of
consciousness. We seem to be animals with an extra dollop of ability. We get to
decide how we feel about things, and then do or not do those things. That’s
pretty cool! I think we deserve a round of applause! (uh-oh, all y’all are
suffering from indolence aren’t you, now that we’ve opened Pandora’s Box and
agreed to question base assumptions. Shit...I don’t hear any clapping.
<CTRL>-<ALT>-<DELETE>, let’s restart this universe :p).

So if we agree it’s worth looking into the fear of death, how do we start?

There is a real tricky thing here.

The fear of a thing can make the thing invisible. Like an ostrich sticking his
head in the sand and feeling, well...pretty good!

You may feel devoid of feelings in this area, and resort to listing things
intellectually (“oldness is sad and bad,” “don’t like being alone, ” etc.).

My idea here is that we first have to diminish the fear somewhat, before we can
see what we are afraid of.

We have to sneak up on our prey, so to speak, and I’d do it like this. Lemme
say:

> You have no control over anything but your thoughts and actions.

> Nada. Nichts. Zilch. None.

> No control over any other person. Over what they think and do.

> No control over all those things out there that might “kill” you.

> “Kill” means real death, or social death, or loss of face, or losing a loved
one.

Oops, I should turn off boldface again. Okay.

I think you have to absorb that, over a fairly long time. I think that idea is
easy to say, but not easy to feel. Not easy to live.

Really, you probably have to suffer for a while first, before you understand
this.

Here is the thing! If you don’t feel the truth of that non-control in your
bones, you can’t really go on in this book...there will be nothing “there!”
Only a bunch of words that seem kind of shallow and fluffy. I’m not offended!

To me, that would just mean you’ve had a pretty good life thus far, and if you
don’t see the point then you just need to accumulate more experiences. Come
back in about 17 years. Really, it can take that long.

Sigh. Only problem is that by then all my metaphors will be creaky and useless.
I’ll be droning on about Snapchat and Tweeting. It’ll be too embarrassing to
read. Hopefully I became a billionaire and I’m streaming all this content into
your retina, your screams inaudible under the blare of high-intensity
sub-channel advertising you agreed to in the mass Pan-American User Agreement
of 2031.

Heh! At least my metaphors will be cutting edge in that case, so here’s to
hopin’!

# Control

“In shape, in control” - you stare at this each morning, doing the same healthy
routine all over and over. Get up early, do some yoga, eat an apple, go to
work. Repeat. Hoping that eventually you’ll achieve it - you’ll be in shape, in
control, wealthy and somehow escaped all the caveats of life. After all, it
happens only to those with a weak will, right?

Until one day you find yourself there, everything slipped through your fingers,
questions bombarding every aspect of your life. And she says: “If you allow me
to act as a therapist, you really need to let go of this desire to control
everything.”

Then you realize persistence can only lead you so far. Yes, you can achieve
everything. And that’s the scary part - you can actually materialize your
dreams. But then you need to let go of this matter, as it only holds you back.
You can own the land, but you can never own the air or the Sun - fortunately!
You cannot own somebody else’s dreams, feelings or thoughts.

## A Rattlesnake can be Joyful

I (Michael) was a classic computer kid. Pasty white...eyes blinking in the
sunlight, last to be picked for sports and first to run away from that special
kind of hell. Plus, I grew up in Texas where it’s so hot, there is little joy
to be had outside anyway. Fire ants were crawling everywhere, and their bites
would itch for weeks. Like Gollum in search of dark caves where he could
contemplate the Ring in peace, I went inside. For years.

But! I was lucky enough to have made a kind of outdoorsy friend named Justin.
He played the bass in our band in Hollywood. He lived on the floor of the
apartment and I lived in the closet. People said I smiled a lot, but he smiled
more, and was always the mature and honest one in our little group. As time
went on, I grew to admire him quite a bit.

We’d go out at night and hike in Griffith Park, and once we climbed the
Hollywood sign. But we didn’t go camping until near the end of my time in
Hollywood. I was growing disillusioned with the lifestyle of playing in a band
and starting to listen to strange music like Bela Bartok, Arnold Schönberg and
Igor Strawinsky. Justin always understood though. He didn’t care what you did,
instead he looked at how you wore what you did. If those clothes looked good,
he knew you were in the right place.

“Let’s go camping!” he said one day. I don’t even remember what time of year it
was. We had no camera so there are no pictures. But it’s a trip I’ll never
forget. Along for the adventure was Adam Marsland. He introduced Kris and I on
the Sunset Strip (Kris later said he was trying to pick her up, heh). His hobby
was driving his beat-up Subaru out to Death Valley and following forgotten
roads to ghost towns. Along the way he’d do solo guitar shows in weird little
coffee houses. We three were the only people we knew who had any interest in
“nature” at that point.

We headed out to the Kings Canyon National Forest. I had a sleeping bag and a
new external frame backpack. Also a flashlight and the usual stuff, but
thinking back, I travelled light even then. I thought ground pads were for
wimps.

The first day we walked up a steep forest path for hours, then emerged on a
plateau to receive a nasty shock: we could have driven here! We stood there
with comically tragic expressions for whole minutes, and our trail conversation
after that was dominated by formulations like “if only we had known…” Life
seemed to divide into two halves: before the Great Error, and After.

But we were pretty young and managed to get over it. Soon we really were in
wild country...a raging river with big boulders to climb over...that special
scent in the air of high mountain pine. We had a clear sky, which is always
good when camping. We set up the tent and Justin managed to build a fire (me
and Adam were city kids, had no idea).

In the dusk before dinner Justin and I went on a romp along the river, hopping
over boulders. I felt this great freedom that remains...somehow a connection
between the sunset, the scent of pine and the summer night. We sat on a boulder
and talked...about Adam back at camp...about the way the stars were coming out,
and about what we wanted to do in this world.

Suddenly an onion floated down the stream. Justin said, “Mike! Quick, grab it!”
I did. How strange! We wondered where it came from, but it was as if that was
what we’d been waiting for, sitting on the rock, and so we hopped and ran back
to camp with it.

Adam was delighted to add the onion to a strange canned chicken dinner he’d
made. Okay, it wasn’t strange...that’s giving it more of a compliment than it
deserves! It was just bits of chicken on a paper plate, but NOW...we could add
many onion slices.

Holy heck, it was a good dinner. It was incredibly good. I think I received the
gift of a lifelong bond with nature that night. Satisfied and warm in my
sleeping bag, looking up at the stars, the fire burning low.

The next day we left the trail for some reason and just rattled down a steep
hillside. I heard the chilling hissss of a rattlesnake and froze. Adam saw it
in front of me. Breaking out in a cold sweat, I saw some piece of fierce life
there, small but spiteful. Before I could get a full look I was running back
uphill.

Boy, was that an adrenaline rush! After this I spoke louder than usual for the
rest of the day and added extra superlatives to everything.

Wait a second...I don’t think I ever climbed down from that?!

We drove back to Hollywood. Back to the problems that seemed so great. Back to
the fear of not being good enough. Back to my place in the band. But now,
things were different.

There was a bit more room in my thinking.

I could finally accept that I’d accepted a subservient role in a friendship
that had grown oppressive. It was time to quit the band, move home to Texas and
go to college.

Adam and Justin, a couple of guys who just shared their time with me...they
gave me the space to see things I didn’t want to see, and I’ll always be
grateful.

# The Modern Obsession with “Destination” Vacations

Why do we need such vacations? The modern Western society has started building
this image of the “dream vacation” (let’s call it “mainstream”) - go to the
other side of the globe, visit something that you’ve only seen on pictures,
admire it as much as you can, take a selfie in front... and go back to your
daily struggles. This dream is being enforced by your friends saying “Travel as
much as you can, especially while you’re young”, showing their pictures of Taj
Mahal or Machu Pichu as a proof that they had an awesome vacation. And
hopefully they did, it’s only that it costs what a family in a developing
country earns in a year.

This leads us to the first trouble: such vacations are actually a privilege of
the rich (either upper class in developing countries or middle class in
developed ones). The rest are left with the feeling that even on their vacation
they are “something less”. As children we don’t understand this - a trip to the
nearby lake, hill or to our grandparents village is as exciting as visiting one
of “The seven wonders.”

What if we could keep this enthusiasm as adults as well? What if don’t focus on
the “as exotic/lazy/popular as possible” when choosing a destination, but
instead chose something that relates to us? What if we find a hobby to dive
into and seek those small places around, at which we can practice or learn
something about it? These are just a few examples - one can easily find theirs.
Think of some outdoor activities that you practise, either “mainstream” or more
niche - rock climbing, scuba diving, freestyle skiing, hiking. But indoor
hobbies as well can lead you to enjoyable places - what about visiting a small
botanical garden, going on a trip with a historical train or listening to the
oldest organ in your country? What about visiting the birth place of your
favourite writer or a small chapel important for the history of the religion
you’re into? Such vacations allow us to connect deeper to the place, as it’s
something that resonates with our own interest, as a result leaving us more
gratified with our experience. And too often at a more approachable price.

